Ok, first post… Where to begin?

This blog is about my foray into furniture design. I am (presently) a fifth year
architecture student, studying for my part II degree at the University of Bath.
I’ve always been interested in furniture, but the relationship only truly began
when my girlfriend and I took a series of trips in the latter half of 2014 to
some European cities. We spent one weekend in Copenhagen, and stumbled across an
exhibition at the Danish Design Museum of Art and Design. It was called ‘Just
One Good Chair,’ and featured 300 or so chairs by **Hans Wegner**. I fell in
love with the confident and thoughtful mid-century design style instantly. It
turns out that Wegner is a pretty big deal in mid-century Danish design, and was
one of the characters that pushed boundaries of contemporary furniture making,
through innovative use of materials, especially plywood.

![](<https://github.com/streuli999/harrys-opendesk/Blog/01-Where-to-Begin/Images/Shall-Chair.png>)

During my final year undergraduate design studio project, I came across
**OpenDesk**. It is an online platform for releasing designs for *Open Source*
furniture, where the design itself is released for non-commercial use by anyone,
for free. The website contains a series of high quality designs, that are
fabricated from 18 mm plywood, with the use of a large format CNC machine. The
idea is that the consumer can use the design wherever they may be, and adapt it
to suit the available resources and facilities. One thing that struck me about
the designs was the interesting joints used to connect an otherwise pretty plain
sheet material.

![](<https://github.com/streuli999/harrys-opendesk/Blog/01-Where-to-Begin/Images/opendesk.jpg%20“reference%20to%20whoever”>)

~   alt-text

I strongly believe in open design, and have been following the application of
open source software principles to hardware for some time. While OpenDesk adopts
some of the principles, through the free publication of design files etc, they
are missing out on a key part — the collaborative nature of open source software
development is something that I really want to try and explore, and see how it
can be applied to furniture, product, or even building design.

I suppose it was a combination of these, and a few other events, that prompted
me to start thinking about how I might design a chair for myself. Inspired by
OpenDesk, I’m going to publish all of the designs as open source, and document
the development of them here.

My mum tells me that every architecture student goes through this phase...
